Connectivity review (#1047)
ARMmbed/Handbook: docs/reference/technology/connectivity/connectivity.md

- NB-IoT.
- Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE).

<!--- Order and headings do not reflect what're in the lists below--->
Non-IP devices require a gateway:

- LoRaWAN.
- Cellular.

<!--- What about NFC?--->

> <!---What if we move this to the ../technology.md file?--->

Reviewer: We separated networking architecture docs from non-networking architecture docs. The technology.md file is for both. This content is networking-specific.

## Choosing your connectivity method

There is a wide variety of possibilities for connected devices, and no globally correct connectivity method. Choose a method that fits your application needs, then choose a device that can support that method. If you're already committed to a device type, you may need to adjust your application to work within that device's connectivity constraints.

## Internet protocol (IP) networking

Mbed OS supports various IP-based connectivity options and IP stacks.

<span class="images">![](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/mbed-os-docs-images/ip-networking-simple.png)</span>

> <!---This could use a caption, IMO--->

Reviewer: What do you think about "Connectivity stack architecture in Mbed OS"?

Author: Sure.

Our Socket API standardizes all of our connectivity options. It supports both IPv4 and IPv6. Applications are portable regardless of final connectivity option.

Mbed OS provides network drivers, such as Ethernet, Wi-Fi and cellular.

> You can find descriptions of supported interfaces and protocols in the [IP networking](../reference/ip-networking.html) section.

Reviewer 2: Descriptions of supported interfaces and protocols are in...

> You can find descriptions of supported interfaces and protocols in the [IP networking](../reference/ip-networking.html) section.

Author: ```suggestion
Descriptions of supported interfaces and protocols are in [IP networking](../reference/ip-networking.html).
```

Mbed OS provides network drivers, such as Ethernet, Wi-Fi and cellular.

> You can find descriptions of supported interfaces and protocols in the [IP networking](#ip-networking.html) section.

Reviewer 3: This is a page line, you can't use # in it. It's just missing the the ../book-name/ bit

> You can find descriptions of supported interfaces and protocols in the [IP networking](#ip-networking.html) section.

Author: ```suggestion
You can find descriptions of supported interfaces and protocols in the [IP networking](../reference/ip-networking.html) section.
```

### Wi-Fi

Wi-Fi has a relatively high throughput of up to 1 Gbps, which is suitable for data-heavy applications. The cost of this throughput is high power consumption. Wi-Fi is not ideal for long-term deployments of battery-powered devices. It can also prove problematic where other devices compete for the same bandwidth.

It works for proof of concept devices because the infrastructure is in place in most offices, and its WPA2 security is familiar to developers.

End devices for Wi-Fi are complicated due to hardware requirements and limitations. The network cost depends on whether the deployment location already includes a well maintained Wi-Fi infrastructure. Wi-Fi is ubiquitous indoors, and Wi-Fi devices have a range of tens of meters, so for certain applications, like those for homes and offices, the infrastructure likely already exists.

### Cellular

> Cellular has a variable throughput, reaching 10 Mbps. Its coverage is extensive, and its range is 25-100km, so it is commonly used in transportation and logistics. It is also well suited for proof of concept, because, like Wi-Fi, it relies on an existing infrastructure. It's suitable for a wide variety of use cases, from monitoring temperature sensors, to streaming video.

Reviewer 2: Always have a space between the number and unit -> 25-100 km

Author: Ack. Been putting those in everywhere else, but missed one. 😅

The new cellular technologies, NB-IoT and CAT-M1, are designed for IoT devices. They offer some advantages, but there are also risks and costs.

**Narrow-band-IoT** (NB-IoT) relies on a simple waveform and therefore requires the lowest power consumption of all the cellular methods. It also has fewer components and offers better signal penetration through walls (thanks to lower bitrates and better link budgets). It needs a country-specific chip, because each country uses its own spectrum, which complicates production. It also experiences problems with large transfers, because of its reduced bandwidth.

**CAT-M1** has a higher data rate than NB-IoT (closer to existing cellular behavior), but is not proven to be more power efficient. Any efficiency gains can be lost because of operator configurations.

It can be deployed on a single spectrum, reducing antenna configuration complexity, but isn't deployed world-wide, and can take years to be deployed in countries using 3G.

### Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)

> BLE is optimized for cheap, battery-based devices, and has a low memory footprint. It is widely adopted for connected spaces, but requires setting up an infrastructure. Its range is up to 100 meters, with 1 Mbps bandwidth. You need an edge gateway so devices in your network can connect to the internet.

Reviewer 2: Edge, if we are talking about our Edge. But are we?

Author: Don't know.

Author: ```suggestion
BLE is optimized for cheap, battery-based devices, and has a low memory footprint. It is widely adopted for connected spaces, but requires setting up an infrastructure. Its range is up to 100 meters, with 1 Mbps bandwidth. You need an Edge gateway so devices in your network can connect to the internet.
```

Typical applications of BLE are health care, fitness trackers, beacons, smart homes, security, entertainment, proximity sensors, industrial applications, and automotives.

To learn how to use BLE on Mbed OS, please refer to the [Bluetooth overview](../apis/ble.html).

###  IP-based mesh (Thread, Wi-SUN and 6LoWPAN-ND)

> Originally designed with large-scale deployment in mind, mesh is optimized for long battery life and low cost.

Reviewer 3: This implies that the goal has since changed

> Originally designed with large-scale deployment in mind, mesh is optimized for long battery life and low cost.

Author: ```suggestion
Designed with large-scale deployment in mind, mesh is optimized for long battery life and low cost.
```

<span class="images">![](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/mbed-os-docs-images/n_mark.png)<span>NFC</span></span>

Near-field communication (NFC) is a short range (few centimeters) wireless technology standard for personal area networks. Typical uses of NFC are commissioning, easy sharing of small content, and Bluetooth connection initiation/out-of-band pairing.

To learn how to use NFC with Mbed OS, please refer to the [Mbed OS NFC overview](../apis/nfc.html).

### NB-IoT cellular

Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD) is a new feature for communication over NB-IoT. It is enabled by Control Plane cellular IoT EPS optimization, to provide improved support for small data transfer. It does this by transporting user data over the control channel, thus reducing the total number of control plane messages when handling a short data transaction.

> 

Reviewer 2: It does this by transporting... -> It transports user data...
How about that?

<span class="images">![](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/mbed-os-docs-images/n_mark.png)<span>NFC</span></span>

Near-field communication (NFC) is a short range (few centimeters) wireless technology standard for personal area networks. Typical uses of NFC are commissioning, easy sharing of small content, and Bluetooth connection initiation/out-of-band pairing.

To learn how to use NFC with Mbed OS, please refer to the [Mbed OS NFC overview](../apis/nfc.html).

### NB-IoT cellular

Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD) is a new feature for communication over NB-IoT. It is enabled by Control Plane cellular IoT EPS optimization, to provide improved support for small data transfer. It transports user data over the control channel, thus reducing the total number of control plane messages when handling a short data transaction.

To learn how to use this feature with Mbed OS, please refer to [CellularNonIPSocket](../apis/non-ip-cellular-socket.html).

### Memory needs for Pelion-connected devices

Mbed OS's baseline memory footprint, without Pelion connectivity, is 2.8 KB RAM and 8.2 KB flash. When you add connectivity and full functionality, the footprint grows:

> 

Reviewer 2: @teetak01, can you please check the numbers here.

Reviewer 4: I cannot say on the Mbed OS numbers (which look to be unrealistically low, especially for flash).

For client, I would just link here: https://www.pelion.com/docs/device-management/current/cloud-requirements/requirements-for-production-devices.html
